# I2C-AND-SPI-PROTOCOLS-DESIGN-USING-VERILOG

Currently, the most used serial communication protocols to exchange information between 
different electronic embedded devices are the SPI and I2C. For the implementation of each 
protocol, it was considered different modes of operation, such as master/slave mode sending 
or pending data mode. For the implementation of the I2C protocol was necessary to perform 
a tri-state buffer, which makes a bidirectional data line for a successful communication 
between devices, allowing to take advantage of these sources provided by the FPGA. 
Verilog is a hardware description language better known as HDL and it was used in the 
work to implement and simulate these communication protocols with the software version 
14.7 of Xilinx ISE Design Suite. There are many communication protocols for both short 
and long-distance communication purpose such as ETHERNET, USB, SATA, PCIEXPRESS are used for long distance and I2C and SPI are used for short distance 
communications. SPI is a serial interface protocol, compared to other protocols, it has high 
transmission speed, simple to use and little pins advantages. The four interfaces are required 
by standard SPI protocol at least. Usually, the devices which based on SPI protocol are 
divided into master device and slave-device for transmitting the data. The chip selects
signal, and clock signal have been generated by the master-device when the data exchange 
has been processes is often considered as the “little” communication protocol which is used 
for On-Board communication

Required Software: 
1. Xilinx Vivado/n


Introduction:
Nowadays, the integration of different embedded electronic modules include at least some 
of these functions: intelligent control, general purpose circuits, analog and digital I/O data 
ports, volatile memories (RAM), non-volatile memories (EEPROM, FLASH), real time 
clocks, ADC, among others. The integration is possible because of the development of 
different kind of wired and wireless communications. The integrated circuit peripherals 
allow for the interaction among electronic devices for exchanging data, either the 
integrated circuit performs the default connection tasks or must be implemented by 
software. The wired communication protocols SPI e I2C are important for this work, so 
this paper summarizes their main features. I2C (Inter-Interface Circuit). The I2C bus uses 
a bit in the device address to indicate read or write operations. The Master transmits the 
Slave’s Address and a Read or Write bit to indicate the direction of the transfer. The I2C 
bus can be either a single master or multi-master. Each electronic embedded device has a 
unique 7-bit or 10-bit address and it is limited to 8 bit’s transfers. The I2C supports three 
basic modes of operation providing different levels of performance and device’s address 
mapping: standard mode (up to 100 Kbits/sec, 7 bit addressing); fast mode (up to 400 
Kbits/sec, addressing between 7 to 10 bits); high-speed mode (up to 3.4 Mbits/sec, 
addressing between 7 to 10 bits)
SPI (Serial Protocol Interface). The SPI bus is a 4-wire full-duplex interface synchronous 
serial data link [3]. Indeed, it is a (3+N)-wire interface where N is the number of devices 
connected to a single master device on the bus. Only one master can be active on the bus. 
Unlike I2C, SPI supports a transfer size of integer multiples of 8 bits. Technically the SPI 
bus shift register’s length limits the size of the data transfers. The SPI bus can support a 
variety of transfer speeds, but the bus is limited by the system´s clock. The SPI interface 
is generally able data rates of several Mbits/sec. This paper describes the procedure used 
to implement the synchronous serial communication protocols SPI and I2C by means of 
the hardware programming language Verilog HDL (Hardware Description Language). The 
outline of this paper is divided in four sections. Section 2 discusses the research course; 
section 3 illustrates the methods used in the development of this work. Section 4 reports 
the obtained results and conclusions.
Keywords - Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI), System Verilog, System- onChip (SoC), Intellectual Property (IP)
